This sort of set the groundwork. We became the
official research agency for the Texas Highway
Department. Most of our, well, all of our early
funding was from the Texas Highway Department.
That was our only source of funds.
So this started in 1956 when I came. Now this was the
same time that the, or shortly after I got here,
later on that fall, they passed the federal
National Congress passed the Highway Revenue Act
of 1956, which was the creation of the interstate
system, the national system of interstate and
defense highways.
As a part of that, they created what they called a
research and planning, highway research and
planning fund stream off of the special taxations
that were set up to fund The interstate system.
Now, the interstate system was funded from
special taxes that were levied $0.05 a gallon
against all gasoline, plus taxes on tires and
lubricating oils and spare parts. This went into a
trust fund held at the national level. Out of the
trust fund, monies were apportioned on a formula
basis to individual states. Now, 1.5% of each
state's apportionment was eligible for
expenditure on planning activities and
research. Now, this really sort of created the
research activities in highway transportation.
However, that law said that if those funds were not
spent on planning or research activities, they
could revert to construction. And the state could
go ahead and use them for construction. So 1.5% of
the income stream to each state off the trust fund
was a substantial amount of money.
And it stimulated some. expansion in the research
programs, particularly in areas of materials and
what I'd call hard research, bridge work, piers,
structural work. Then as the interstate began to
actually go in to get into being in the late 50s,
there became a growing awareness of the social and
economic problems that were being created by it.
One of the first early problem areas was the
problem of bypassing small towns.
There was a great concern that if the interstate
system bypassed a small community, that that
community would wither and die. since it was no
longer now had the through traffic to support it.
So that generated a series of studies on the
economic consequences of bypasses, and that was
some of the earlier work that we did. And our group
then became a department head in TTI over the
economics and planning department.
And I believe we had four departments at that time.
And
that's not right. First, Bill Atkins, Dr. William
G. Atkins, who is now retired from the system, was
head of that group. And I worked under him. Then in
the late 50s, he left. to go complete his PhD
degree. And I became head of that group. And when he
completed his PhD, he came back and worked for me
then. We just sort of switched roles. But in 1964
then, with the Revenue Act of 64, they changed what
we call the HPR funding formula, the Highway
Planning and Research Fund.
Now the states that did not spend that 1.5% rather
than having it available to revert to their
construction program where most of them had been
using it and very little of it going into planning
and research activities, Texas was one of the few
states that were using substantial amounts of it.
I said, you either use it or lose it. If you don't use
it for those activities, then it reverts back to
the federal government and will become a part of
the reapportionment process. They'll
reapportion it to states that do need it. So that
stimulated a substantial new activity in
research and planning. And really, our program
grew rather rapidly after 1964.
In the meantime, I had been taking coursework
toward a PhD, again in agricultural economics,
again under Dr. McNeely. And I
can't even remember when I finished it. I had to
look at the bio data sheet. I want to say 1965. I
don't think it's right. It must have been because
you're only allowed 10 years to get it done. Oh, I
broke all sorts of rules when I was doing it. I
didn't have a formal program set up until after I'd
been taking courses for a long time. Then I filed a
degree plan. But I also ran into the problem that
the university then had a regulation that anyone
with a rank greater than assistant professor
could not get a terminal degree here. Well, I got
special dispensation because I had been hired
with the proviso that I would be able to do it to
complete the degree. So I'm one of the few people
that ever received a degree from A&M carrying the
rank of associate. And it was because I had been
contracted to do that, or it was in our agreement
that I would be able to complete a degree. Well, let
me ask you this. You said that Texas was one of the
states that put a lot of money into research on
highways. Is it some of the states that have poorer
transportation systems, did they fail to use this
research? For instance, Louisiana and New
Mexico, their road systems in those two states are
not up to par with those in Texas for the most part.
Were those two states not using that money for
research? They were not. In fact, many states were
not. Many states still don't use much of it for
research. It can be used for research or planning.
Now, in recent years, federal planning
requirements have gotten ever increasingly
stringent, so they've been required to do more and
more planning activities. which have required a
greater and greater percentage of the combined
research and planning budgets. So many research
budgets that you work on, this doesn't just apply
to the interstate center, it applies to all the
state highways. Oh, yeah, right. No, the funding
is just out of that interstate funding stream. I
get the impression from that that probably
California was definitely using the money for
research and planning. Texas were? What were some
of the other states that were that you know of? Oh,
Pennsylvania did, New York that had, and Indiana
through Purdue. Most states, now California is an
exception, but most states do not have an
on-board, a major on-board research capability.
So they do their research through their
universities or consultants or some other way.
California does have its own in-house research
program. Now, Texas doesn't have much of one. We
and the University of Texas do most of theirs. They
do a little bit, but, oh, 10% of what we do. I thought
this TTI was meeting that requirement that you
said there. It is. Now, back in 19...
late 50s and I'm not sure just what time we
developed what we call the cooperative research
program with the highway department that means
and this is a unique
arrangement among state departments and
universities and that we're the only one that
really has this sort of an arrangement the
University of Texas then came into it in about
1968. They also developed the same sort of
agreement with the University of Texas. But this
is a system whereby we jointly get together with
the department and with their district engineers
and determine what sorts of research needs to be
done in the coming year. And in the spring of the
year, we formulate a research program to begin in
September in the beginning of the new fiscal year.
And we have an agreement with the department that
we will try to keep this in a sort of a constant mode
in terms of total amount of money available for
research so that we can plan for it and get the
people and keep them and but that we will jointly
determine through a series of area research
committees. There are four of them in the
department has that we work with those area
committees in areas or areas of materials and
pavements and structures and economics and
planning. We work with those to develop the
research program for the coming year. And we have a
strong input into what sorts of research is going
to be done. So we and the University of Texas, and
they operate the same way now, do the research for
the Texas Highway Department, for the State
Department of Highways and Public
Transportation in the state. Now, in addition, we
do, of course, this year, for example, that'll be
about $1.6 million that we will do in our
cooperative research program with the Highway
Department. But now, in addition, for the last 10
or 15 years, We do direct contract work with the
federal government, with other states, with
other state agencies, with trade associations,
and with private industry. So the co-op program,
the program of the highway department, which
originally was our total program, now this year
we'll have about, the year we're in now, about $7.2
million worth of research, of which the states
will be about in our cooperative about 1.6. So it's
a very, very important part of our research
activity, in that it is the one program which we
have, which allows us continuity. But in terms of
total it's only about less than 25% of our program.
About how many researchers do you have employed at
TTI? Are the faculty members working half-time or
what? We have both. We have a total of, gosh, the
numbers again get me. We have a total of about 125.
FTEs, full-time equivalent, professionals.
Now, we have 327
people, but now that includes all of our
technicians, our clerical, secretarial. We have
a large technical group at the research annex. All
the students and graduate students that we use in
the research program. So the total body count is
going to be well over 300. But in terms of
professional full-time equivalents, we have
about 125, 127. Where are all of the facilities
used in the research, where are they located? OK.
On campus, right in this complex primarily. Here,
back in the asphalt lab, the concrete labs. Those
are campus activities. They're concentrated
here. Now, we've got people scattered in other
places. But here on campus, out at the research
annex, we have our safety division headquartered
there. In the Hirschfield properties in Austin,
we have our accident analysis division
headquartered there. What properties is that?
This is the Joe Moore, the Hirschfield estate that
Joe Moore from the A&M Development Foundation
bought and remodeled, spent about a million
dollars remodeling the thing. How do you spell
that, Hirschfield? H-I-R-S-C-H-F-I-E-L-D.
And
he wanted someone from A&M to be in the properties,
and so we had been in commercial lease space in
Austin. And so we moved in January from that space
over to the Hirschfield properties because he
wanted someone there, and it's very nice and very
convenient. But we have an office in Austin. We
have one in Dallas. We have one in Houston, one in
San Antonio, one in Arkansas,
plus the campus and out at the research annex. Now,
you were asking about joint employees. I've got
120 some odd. The last count I had, we had 37 of those
people were jointly employed with academic
communities, academic departments, primarily
with the civil engineering department. That's
our largest single one. But we have people with the
joint employees with the Department of
Economics, the Sociology, Institute of
Statistics, of course, practically all of the
engineering departments, chemical
engineering, industrial, mechanical,
geology.
But we have a number of joint. And that's really one
of the functions of the Institute is to be able to
provide the mechanism where we can, if we need
expertise that's in an academic department,
there's a mechanism of how we can bring them aboard
and let them participate in the research
programs.
Do you consider the level of funding that the
agency receives by the state to be adequate?
Nobody ever gets adequate funding from the state.
We do not get a great deal of state general revenue
funds, and traditionally have not. Of our budget
this year, only less than 10% of our budget will be
state general revenue funds. And the other 90% is
soft money. That is money that we acquire through
contracts. Now, that is not enough to sustain an
operation over time.
That's one of the objectives going through our
target 2000 and our five-year planning process.
One of our objectives is to increase the
proportion of state general revenue funds
available to the Institute to the 20 to 25% range.
So that and for a number of reasons, not just in
order to have the money available, but one of the
things that a research organization should do is
to identify emerging problem areas before those
problems become critical to look at problems that
are not the domain of any one funding agency. Lots
of problems never get addressed because no one has
direct responsibility for that problem area. So
we need, we feel, to have state general revenue
funds sufficient to enable us to, one, bring in
people with expertise in areas that we do not now
have funded research projects to support them on,
and let them develop research in those areas, the
seed money concept. Secondly, to allow us to
conduct a modest amount of research
in those areas where no one is now responsible for
that problem, so that problem does not get
addressed, the intermodal problems for example
no one either at the federal level or at the state
level is responsible for the interact
interactions between let's say railroads and
trucking or airports and good movements the truck
and rail industry supply and airports the
interactions of those or the problems of
piggyback operations, truck rail operations. So
there's lots of problem areas that do not get
addressed because in the governmental
frameworks that divide the responsibilities,
they fall through the cracks. So there needs to be
resources available to allow you to do those, to do
policy studies, which no one really has
responsibility for, to answer questions that no
one really has the prerogative to ask in a modal
agency. For example, what should be the state's
role or the state's posture toward
transportation development? No one at the state
has the prerogative to fund research to answer
that question. Since the state does not have a role
in transportation, it has a highway system with
its own requirements, an aeronautics commission
with its purviews over air, a Texas Railroad
Commission. It has a water system that nobody
really has any responsibilities for, and a
pipeline system that has nobody to ask questions
about it. But the state does not have a mechanism by
which it can look at what should be the
transportation balance. Where should we be
trying to influence transportation growth,
transportation development area? What should
the state's posture be with regard to conflicts
between modes of transportation? The pipeline
railroad conflict on cold slurry pipelines, for
example. So, you know, somebody needs to be in a
position to look at some of those problems. What
has TTI done to promote highway safety?
Highway safety has been one of the large things
that we've been operating and working on. And
you're always... subject to omission when you
start listing the things that you've done in the
past, but there are some very visible things that
we have done. We developed
very early what we called the forgiving roadway
concept.
Now this is sort of analogous to the old military
expression that if it moves, salute it. If it
doesn't move, pick it up. If you can't pick it up,
paint it. Well, we took that sort of an attitude
toward highway roadways, and we said if it doesn't
need to be there, move it. Clear the roadway to the
extent you can. If you can't clear it, then protect
it. If you can't protect it, then make it break
away. So with that, we started out and we were the
ones that developed the breakaway signs.
All of the large, and this primarily was developed
for interstate systems, where they had the big,
massive sign boards because of high speed. and the
massive sign frame that those things had to
support. Well, you had the big H beams that were the
supports. Well, these were lethal. If you ran off
the road and hit one of those, it was bad news all the
way around. So one of the early research
activities we had in the late 60s, I believe about
68, was the development of a breakaway concept to
make those signs break away. Now, the last
estimate that I saw was, I don't remember the
numbers, but up in literally the tens of thousands
of lives that have been saved by making those signs
break away. Multi-billions of dollars of value in
terms of property loss and loss of life saved
through those systems. From that, we went to the
breakaway of the luminary supports, light poles,
and that was a major... uh, safety breakthrough.
And then, uh, that took care of the part of those
things that you had to leave there and you could do
something about to make them less dangerous. And
then we developed a, uh, what is now known as the
Texas crash cushion, the impact attenuation
systems, the barrel systems, uh, for those areas
like, uh, parapets, bridge radio, uh, bridge
piers, Gore areas that have
concrete walls that if you want to turn off on an
exit ramp, for example, and you don't make your
decision quick enough and try to turn and don't
make it, you hit the wall. And one place on 59 in
Houston, they had like 13 deaths in just a matter of
months of people hitting a parapet wall. So we
developed the crash cushions, and those are now in
use nationwide. Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Ivey and Dr.
Olson
were all instrumental in developing both the
breakaway signs, breakaway light poles, and the
and the crash cushions. Now, that's one concept,
or that's one area of the safety, in the hardware
area. We have ongoing programs in developing
bridge ratings. We also developed the Texas
twist, for example, on guardrails. One of the big
problems in roadside safety was you put up a
guardrail, and sometimes the guardrail becomes
more dangerous than what you were trying to
protect them from. and if you were to go off the
road, particularly in the old guardrail system
where you just stubbed out the end and it sat there.
And you've probably seen the gory pictures where
somebody hit that head on and the guardrail comes
through the car and through the occupant and out
the back end. So we developed a safe end treatment
for guardrails.
Again, that's on the hardware system. One of the
big problems that we've addressed and now have a
solution to is the problem of restraining heavy
vehicles on bridges and overpasses. You may
recall a couple of years ago the big ammonia truck
accident in Houston where the ammonia truck was
coming around over one of the overpasses and ran
through the guardrail, went down two levels
below, and it hit and ruptured and killed either
eight or ten people and injured like 110. They
closed the interchanges up. So this focused
attention on the need to develop a system, a
guardrail system or a bridge rating system that
could be used in especially sensitive areas like
that. to restrain those heavy vehicles. They had
the Martinez, California school bus incident
when 27 school children were killed because a bus
went through a guardrail again on an overpass and
went down several 20, 30 feet and killed a whole
bunch of kids. So those are what I would call safety
hardware sort of things. the national leaders in
the development of those for the last 15, 20 years.
At the same time, we've been doing some very good
work in hydroplaning and trying to assure that the
vehicle-roadway interaction is, it's not a good
term, but to assure that we're building, using the
right materials to to provide skid resistance
that's necessary to keep the vehicle on the
roadway. So we've done hydroplaning work. We've
developed new materials for lightweight
aggregate or surface treatments to give you high
coefficient of friction so that you can retain the
control of the car. This is all a wet weather
problem, by the way. You don't have the problem in
dry weather. It's when you get rain. You get a
buildup of water. Now, this buildup is just a film.
It can be just a film. But if you have, under the
worst conditions, a very slick pavement, that is a
very smooth pavement, and smooth tires, and low
tire pressure, and high speed, you can hydroplane
or get riding up on that film of water and totally
lose contact between the tire and the pavement. So
you try to turn the wheel, and nothing happens. Or
you may go into just a total spin. So we've been
developing materials and roadway systems to
minimize hydroplaning, to minimize the adverse
effects of wet weather.
Do you conduct your highway crash tests here? Add
it to Research Annex.
Let me ask you this. Do you know how Texas ranks the
other states?
No, I really don't. I'm sure those... We had one
place where Nevada, I believe, had the highest
fatality rate on its highways. Maybe it was
Wyoming, one of the western states. Yeah, it was
one of the western states, and I sort of believe it
was Wyoming. I believe it was. They also have the
lowest compliance rate with the 55-mile-an-hour
speed limit, I think. But they've got some special
problems. They've got ice problems and all of that
to deal with. I'm sure those numbers, those
rankings are available in terms of... Vehicle
miles traveled, deaths per vehicle miles
traveled by state. But I really don't know just how
we rank. I would say that Texas, or I would think
that Texas would rank fairly good. Now, we are not a
state that believes in low speeds. Our compliance
with the 55-mile-an-hour speed limit is not as bad
as Wyoming's, but we're not in compliance either.
Our people don't drive 55 miles an hour, as you well
know if you're out on Interstate 45 somewhere. If
you drive 55, everybody's passing you. But it is
better than it was.
And in the areas where speed is a critical safety
problem, I think we're doing better than we are in
areas where it's not, like on the interstate
system. Speed is not really that big a safety
problem on the interstate, because it was
designed for it. Where speed's a real problem is on
the foreign market roads in the rural system,
where it was designed, you know, 40-mile turns,
and you'd go 45, and you'd be in a ditch. That's
where we're really speed-sensitive in terms of
accident rates. Do you have any idea on how the
state police are enforcing the 55 mile per hour
speed? Writing tickets just fast as they can.
Again,
the numbers are not, I won't swear to the numbers,
but if I recall correctly, their numbers
of tickets issued last year was like 1,800,000
tickets. they have increased in each of the last
several years like 25% or 30% each year in the
number of tickets they have issued. Are most of
these tickets being issued on interstate or on the
farm and market roads or on just regular state
highways? I would guess that most, well, I don't
know for sure, but I would say that a good portion of
them are on the interstate and on the major U.S.
highways, which carry most of the traffic.
they're going to concentrate their activities on
those areas where they've got most of the
vehicles.
In view of the large size of the state of Texas, how
does it happen to have one of the better highway
systems in the nation?
Several reasons.
One, it has always had a very well-managed, and
very
honest highway department. Now this has not been
true in many of the other states. It's had a highway
department, or state department of highways and
public transportation now, which has been free of
scandal since the Mall Ferguson days. That was the
last period in which there was a political
influence in the Highway Department. It has
been... That was in what year approximately?
Mid-20s? Yeah, the Maul Paul Ferguson
governorship era where there was some highway
scandals back in those areas, but the Highway
Department has been relatively free of political
influence. It has been a very well managed, very
professionally operated department, which
means that with the money available they put it to
good use. How do you think the political influence
was less in Texas than it was in other states? Why
was this? I really don't know. As I say, during the
Ma Ferguson era, we had it here. Gosh, they've got
it in all other states now, or not all other states.
They've got it in several other states now. bid
rigging, kickback, Spiro Agnew. What are some of
the states where this occurs? Oh, Maryland was
one. Spiro Agnew was up to his ears in it. In fact,
didn't he get sent to jail over the kickbacks? I
think he did. For not reporting the income, I
believe. I believe it was from actually taking the
kickback. It was from not reporting it.
Pennsylvania's got it right now. or have had it,
they're just now cleaning theirs up.
Massachusetts, Tennessee has had it up to their
ears. Many states, for example, Texas, being
apolitical, has had a very stable highway
department. Take Pennsylvania, for example,
before the current commissioner, who's a good
friend of mine, Tom Larson, took over. They turned
over their whole personnel every time they
changed, and they were in a bipartisan, area, so
when the Democrats got in, they wiped out the whole
department. They were under civil service
agreements. No, no. And they started all over
again, so it became a part of the patronage
process, the highway department jobs, and it's
reflected. Now, in addition to good management
and lack of political influence on the
department, these are my opinions, of course, and
good leadership, but C. Greer and the highway...
He's still on the highway, Gordon. No, he just
stepped down a matter of months ago. But
Mr. Luther Deberry, who's the one that just has
been stepped down about a year ago, and Mark Good
now has it, but they've all been high-quality
professional people. Now, in addition, I've got
to put in a plug for the continuing long-term
research programs that they have funded. Texas
has been a leader in the development of new
materials, of new design, of new traffic systems.
They have not only funded the research, but
through this integration of the research with the
department, they've used it.
That and...
A large area of the state is very favorably
situated from the standpoint of soil and climate
for rope building. Now, a lot of it is very
miserably suited, too, but a bigger section of it
is good than is bad. The bad part is around the Gulf
Coast. Gulf Coast, Beaumont area, and we're in a
bad area here with the Taylor Marl. It's a heaving
soil problem. that runs all the way up Corsicana,
that area. What was that? Taylor what? Marl,
M-A-R-L. It's a soil type. Very fine-grained
clays that absorb water and expand when they're
wet massively, and then when they dry, they
contract massively, and it's a heaving soil
problem. Very difficult. My house, I can't close a
door in it. I keep cleaning off the doors because
the soil keeps expanding and contracting. So this
is a bad area. But you get out in West Texas, and
that's great road building country.
That and the fact that, well, I guess those are the
major things that I would say. In closing, could
you tell me, A little bit more about the research
projects that have recently been completed, some
that you may not have touched on, or some that are
underway now that are significant. Let me run
through probably two or three different things
that I think that we have underway that are
currently answering real problems. One of the
things that greatly concerns everyone in the
highway industry is the tremendous
Susceptibility of the road building industry to
the oil problem, particularly the concerns over
foreign oil. Asphalt, which is the major binder
for use in roadway building, is of course a
derivative of petroleum. It comes from crude oil
and is the residual from the refining process, or
one of the residuals. As in a period of real oil
shortage, the refining process will squeeze that
residual even down, so it'll shorten the amount of
asphalt available. Even greater, perhaps, than
the amount of gasoline that's produced, because
they can make refining changes that will reduce
the percentage of asphalt out of a given barrel of
oil. not into gasoline, but into home heating oils
and other things like that that use the heavy end as
well. Asphalt prices have gone from, say,
pre-'74, they were less than $20 a ton, to around
$200 a ton now. So they have become very expensive.
So it is very important that we try to develop
substitutes for asphalt, which we're working on
now. One of the most abundant elements, and
particularly as we go into the EPA
requirements to reduce pollution and continue to
develop sour crude and sour gas areas, is the
production of abatement sulfur.
We have research projects underway to attempt to
utilize sulfur as either a partial replacement
for asphalt as a binder or a total replacement. Now
these are two different concepts. The partial
replacement is what we,
and there are two different processes. The Shell
Canada process and a French process which they
call the d'Aquitaine process. process. I wish I
could. It's an individual's
name, and I think it's D-A-C-Q-U-A-T-A-I-N,
the Aquitaine process. Anyway, these two
processes are ways of
homogenizing liquid asphalt heated and liquid
heated sulfur to extend through substituting
sulfur for asphalt to provide a binder up to, say,
30% or 40% of the asphalt can be substituted with
sulfur. And it actually provides perhaps a
better. We haven't finished the evaluations over
time yet. But it looks very, very promising to
where you can replace with another material some
of this asphalt. Now the other process, and we're
entering into the second contract now to evaluate
its effectiveness, is what we call plasticized
sulfur. And that's just taking sulfur, molten
liquid sulfur, and adding plasticizers to it to
change its character so that you can make a
flexible pavement binder of it. And that looks
very promising. The problem being right now, not
with the sulfur, but with the cost of the
plasticizers that you have to add to it to make it
act like a flexible binder. But these are areas
where we're trying to develop new materials to
replace things that we know are going to get
increasingly scarce, increasingly expensive,
and increasingly sensitive to other market
activities where we, you know, we may hit a time
when for periods of time there just won't be any
asphalt or will be only a half enough to do the road
building. So we've got to do something. Where is
Texas getting most of its asphalt now? Of course,
we're getting it from the refineries in Texas
here. There are a number of major asphalt
producers, major refineries that They produce it
as a normal part of the refining process. But that
one is in the materials area. Another very
important area, and one that gets overlooked a
lot, is we have quit building highways. Now, we
haven't really quit. But we're not adding
freeways or expressways in Houston, for example,
nearly at the rate at which we're adding vehicles
and vehicle miles of travel. So as a little
over-exaggeration, we have quit several years
ago building facilities. Now we're going in and
trying to repair and update and modify existing
facilities. Many of those have hit their life
expectancy, and they've got to be redone. So we're
putting our money in that, in the maintenance and
rehabilitation of our existing plant, rather
than adding to the plant. At the same time, the
demand placed on those facilities is increasing
each year. For example, Houston, the last time I
looked, was adding a net to their vehicle fleet,
this is Harris County, of 400 vehicles a day. Every
day, 400 more vehicles than there was the day
before to accommodate on that set amount of
facility. Well, the problem is you've got all of
the growing demand. You don't have any increased
supply. So how do you make what you have there work
more efficiently and more effectively to stretch
the supply, as it were, or to accommodate a part of
the increased demand? It's a losing game, but it's
a fighting of a delaying action until you can come
up with a better solution. So our research has been
geared very strongly, particularly in areas like
Houston and Dallas, to how do you modify existing
facilities to squeeze more capacity out of them?
How do you accommodate other people movement as
opposed to vehicle movement on existing
facilities? And we're doing some of that through
our big van pooling program, our occupancy
vehicle lane, program on new freeways. We've got
one of those coming in on Gulf Freeway in Houston,
for example. The contra flow lane that we've got on
I-45 coming out now. Have you been through that?
It's on I-45 coming out of downtown Houston up
toward Conroe. In the morning, in the morning, we
take one of the outbound lanes, the one coming
north, and convert it into an inbound lane. And
then in the afternoon, we switch over on the other
side of the median, add
one of the inbound lanes now going south over to the
outbound lane coming north, and use that for buses
and van pools and high occupancy vehicles. We're
getting more capacity out of the system by doing
that. It's expensive in that it costs you. You've
got to go down and set it up every morning and take it
down every morning and then set it up and take it
down every afternoon. But so far it's been safe and
has increased the capacity of those systems.
So those are some of the types of things that we
think are critical to us. We're going to have to
make a better use of what we have now. At the same
time, we have got to come up with new solutions to
the problems that we've been facing for 30 years
that have grown more and more acute and yet have
never been solved. And we have plenty of problems
to work on for the rest of my lifetime in
transportation. Thank you, Dr. Wood, for taking
the time to talk with me. You've been most helpful.
I appreciate it and enjoyed it.